Hey, good afternoon everyone.
It's great to be here. It's great to be
in Barcelona. So, I think we're the last
panel of the day. So, everyone's very
very welcome. So, the topic of our panel
today is six things nobody tells you
when you're raising a seed round. So, on
the panel we have three great seed
investors
and they're going to dive right We're
going to dive right into it. So, we have
Zoe from Frontline, Carmen from Cocoa
and and Ruben from Cavalry. So, I'm
going to kind of get things started. So,
kind of when we were when we were
talking about this earlier to grab my
So, the first question we kind of wanted
to kind of address was, you know, why
seed why seed funding? I think, you
know, when we talked before the panel,
we we kind of came to the conclusion
that expectations were very important.
So, my first question is to Ruben
and I suppose it's it's what are you
looking for? You know, what are your
expect expectations of a company and of
a founder when they come to you?
Yeah, I think it's very important to
understand that
not every founder team should take
actually seed funding. Yeah, because
there are different models
A and there's also different
expectations
from investors for example and
for for founders, you know, sometimes it
can be a great choice to to bootstrap
for quite a while or actually for for as
long as you know, the company is
existing and there are numerous examples
of even billion-dollar companies being
founded like that, right?
You know, especially if you're on
somewhat like in a profitable niche
without much competition
or for example also
if you have a very unique technology
that that does not need
funding, yeah?
But then comes the point and and I think
typically where where founding teams
say, "Look, I want to take on funding."
And that starts with the angel or the
pre-seed round, you know, it's actually
the same term of
the same thing.
Where where you go out, you talk to
friends, you talk to family, you get
feedback from the market and then
somewhat organically you're off with the
first check. So, that means you get
somebody else into your company as
shareholder and if you get that, then
ideally you get the person or that fund
who will add value to you because you
will lose somewhat of your independence,
yeah?
That person wants to have rights, maybe
a board seat.
So, really make sure that that there's a
value add for this
equity that you're giving away next to
the cash and the cash itself is then for
you extremely useful if you know
certain repeatable
metrics already in your in your
playbook, you know, how to do sales
repeatably, how to invest more into your
technology, how to build out the core
team. Can be very early, but if you know
that you need those funds in order to
outbeat competition
then it's definitely for you the the
right means and especially nowadays you
want to take on funding very often
because just, you know,
the the disruption cycles are very
quick. You don't have 20 years often to
build a big company, maybe five, maybe
10 at most. So, this is why you would
really need seed funding and then most
likely more. Great. And and just to
build on that, Zoe. So, when you try and
create alignment with the founder,
what what what are you looking to
achieve? Yeah, it's a really good point.
So, I think just to build on what Ruben
has just said, um for me one of the
first things out of the traps is, do you
really understand what I'm thinking when
I sit opposite you as you request kind
of seed funding from a fund? And by that
I mean, are you up for what this journey
from my mind's going to look like, which
means building something super high
growth at a pace which is actually quite
relentless, um has lots of ups and
downs, has a lot of different
stakeholders to manage, but where you
understand that every, you know, time is
precious because you need to kind of get
ahead of your competition. So, it's
almost a mentality check-in that the
type of journey you're up for isn't
something which is perhaps two or three
years, it's much longer, it's to build
something of truly huge impact and that
a fund like mine is looking for, you
know, we're underwriting to kind of at
least 10 times the money that we're
putting in. So, I think it's kind of
getting above it all and saying, "If I
got an offer for 10 million pounds for
this company, 10 million euros this
company in a few years, would I take
it?" It's a great answer if the answer
is yes, but it just means that, you
know, sitting opposite a venture capital
fund might not be might not be the
answer for you because that mentality
of, you know, building a fast-paced
team, compounding over time is one that
is I guess quite unique and and that's
what I guess I am looking for in those
founding teams.
Yeah.
And I think what Zoe said what Zoe just
said is actually very important. Like
you don't have to raise from a VC
necessarily and this sounds unsexy
because according to the news
it feels like
uh like if you want to be successful you
need to raise from a VC, but it is
almost also a lifestyle choice and
there's no right or wrong, right? It
depends what you want to do with your
life and that like you're the only one
to know. But you need to think about VC
as like a highway.
If you can take it or not take it and by
the way, you can get very far without
taking the highway, but if you take it,
you cannot get out of it, so to say, and
you need to drive very very fast and
there are series of expectations that
come with that. So, it is that
pre-raising a seed you really need to
think about what do you want out of this
business, what do you want out of your
life and then choose one or the other,
right? And again, you can get super far,
make tons of money, be very successful
without a VC. It's just a different path
or a different road to get there. So,
that's something to really think about.
And Zoe,
we talked a little bit earlier about
other forms of kind of financing and
other options. I mean,
you know, bootstrapping, you know,
raising raising other types of finance.
Maybe you could kind of take us through
your your your thoughts on that. Yeah,
of course. And to Carmen's very good
point, it is is a choice. You've got
many many choices and I think the way to
think of your business is
equity capital has obviously been super
super cheap in the last couple of years,
but it is by no means the only source of
capital out there.
And you can start right at the very
bottom with, am I building something
which has got quite a high level of
research and development? Am I hiring
PhD students? Does the country that I'm
building in offer grants? That's
completely not free money, but it's
non-dilutive capital. So, there's
there's grants out there which
absolutely be looked at. They might pay
some people's salary, they might cover
your R&D costs, there might be some tax
credits in there. Then of course there
are loads of different forms of debt.
Now,
debt works obviously so much better than
equity in a number of ways. So, when you
are taking equity dollars and I say this
as a VC like I would hate to think that
you were taking our money to,
you know, hire out a plant or buy some
machinery. It's actually typically, you
know, reinvesting in headcount and
investing in building that product. Once
the product is built and you're selling
it and you have a revenue stream which
may be a SaaS business model, it may
well be e-commerce. Of course there are
tons of players in the market and
startups, scale-ups who are specifically
there to finance some of those revenue
streams just in the same way that there
are working capital facilities. So, if
it's just a timing point about like your
creditors and debtors, there are other
places where you can get much cheaper
capital and you're not having to give up
parts of your business. I'm putting
myself out of a job, but
that is all to say that, you know,
alongside equity sits other things and
just to name some that are in Europe,
there are obviously Clearbanc, Pipe,
Capchase, Wayflyer. There's lots of
options if you do have this kind of
repeatable revenue stream and you have
bootstrapped to that stage. So, I think
just to like round it all off, you
should sit there, you should say, "What
is my mentality? What am I up for
building? Do I want this type of
lifestyle and all that comes with that,
which is both upside and potential some
like,
you know, ties?" And if I do want that,
what's the best way to to build that?
And that might well be with equity and
it might well be with forms of debt and
also grants.
Really good. So, yeah, we're just going
to move on. So, the next kind of point
to is when to raise a seed round. So,
you
you you you've decided to raise venture
funding. I suppose the question then is
when do you do it? So, Ruben, when do
you think is the optimal time to raise
raise raise raise a seed round?
Well, I think,
you know, once you've decided that you
want to have venture funding,
then I think it's always a good time to
raise money when you actually can raise
money.
You know, it sounds sounds somewhat easy
and obvious, but
when when, you know,
raising raising money is not like as if
as if you
set up for like a rendezvous with a with
a VC and then say
at the end you make it. You know, often
that it just happens in a way that you
start a conversation, you go out in the
market
and you learn that that VCs are
interested in your
business.
And
what
you can do at the same time and you
know, in this natural process
you can actually stage and you shall
stage at a certain point, which is more
towards the seed or series A and post
rounds.
Once you once you know what your VCs
expect, yeah, what kind of metrics they
want to see.
Um, typically in a seed round, it's it's
a little bit, you know, you have to have
early signs of product market fit, you
have some customers if we talk B2B, not
many, rather have few customers engaged.
Uh, you have to have a big market, you
have to have a great founding team.
Um, anything where a VC actually says,
"Look, when I invest, I can pay back my
fund uh um ultimately
X amount of times." So, you also have to
understand how big is the fund um that's
coming in, they want certain ownership.
Um, but ultimately it's about that for a
for a VC and um you know, whenever the
momentum is right, when when whenever
you get offers, um I would I would say
uh uh
go go down that route.
And I suppose the second question is,
obviously in the current environment,
Carmen, um
is now a good time to raise a seed
round?
It's a very good question. I would say
also, whenever like when to raise, you
can judge. But when you're raising,
you're raising. That is the important
thing as well. It's like when you decide
to go, go. And we can discuss later how
the process looks like, but
So, the market right now, we've
discussed this a lot earlier. Feel free
to jump in. Um,
it's a bit difficult to tell at seed
because growth for sure has been
impacted negatively. Reality is, we can
say at seed, things are still happening
and like we're still
um investing into into companies and you
see still great deals. Probably and in
full transparency, there is less
velocity in the deals, like they're
slower because people are taking more
time to think whether to invest and to
build a conviction um and they're being
more picky and the bar is higher from an
investor perspective just because there
is such uncertainty in the market that
their incentive to the to invest is
toned down a little bit versus what it
was like
6 to like 12 months before, right? But
again,
deals are getting done all over the
place and still at like um healthy
healthy valuations. So, but I would say
it's like if you are ready um to the
earlier point to go out and raise,
go out and raise because the good
funding founding teams and the good
opportunities are still getting funded.
Now, be mindful that it might take a bit
longer. Be mindful that dilution levels
are adjusting. So, they kind of below
15% dilution that we were seeing um
a few months ago are now very very rare.
The sizes of seed rounds are also
adjusting. So, 5 million at 25 are now
like sort of unicorns and you probably
need to be a second time founder that
like exited his or her company. So, just
adjust a little bit the expectations and
think about how much money do I need to
get 24 months of runway and what are the
terms to build to like the to get the
best partner.
And I think in if you have something
that is valuable, you're like a strong
team, you're going after a great market
opportunity and your expectations are
reasonable to create win-win situations
with the investors, still deals are
still happening.
Great. Does anyone else want to add add
to that in terms of how how you're
seeing things at the moment, Zoe?
Um, listen, seed is a wonderful place to
be because seed will always exist. Seed
has to exist. We absolutely want to
invest in the brightest and most
exciting and crazy people of the future
who are building the future. But I think
all of Carmen's points are valid, which
is just the one thing that I would take
away is that the market absolutely
exists, deals are absolutely happening,
but you cannot put your head in the sand
and think that 2021 is carrying on. The
growth markets of follow-on rounds, they
have almost stopped investing. Um, seed
deals are still being done, they're just
being done with a bit more um reflection
time and the right pace, I would say.
So, for me, timing is all about what are
you de-risking between now and the next
stage,
but thinking that that will take 2 years
and there's no founder who I have met
who has said they wish they took a
little bit less and they did things way
quicker than they expected. So, perhaps
as much buffer as you can get on that
24-month runway and you tell the story,
whether it's pre-product or pre-revenue,
about how you get to that next important
milestone and what value you are then
compounding onto your business and why
the next investor will be excited
because you will have taken this level
of risk off the table. And if you can
tie that together in a great narrative,
then of course, you will be getting um
investors excited at both the pre-seed
and seed stages. Great. So, I think
we're going to move on to our next
question, I suppose.
Can you raise Can you raise a seed fund
a seed round remotely? You know, I'm I'm
from Ireland uh which is, you know, you
know, it's a smaller market. So, do I
need to get on a plane? Do I need to go
to London? Or can I do it on Zoom? Or or
should I go to San Francisco? How should
I do that? So, Carmen, maybe you could
you can take me through that one. So, to
the question, can I raise remotely? Yes,
100% definitely and everything. I think
COVID changed the rules of the game
there. At the beginning of COVID, we
were all wondering whether we would get
comfortable funding teams just meeting
them over Zoom. 100% happening. Um,
I've I've done it in the past few
months. No need to take a plane. Uh, no
need to be in disadvantage with local
teams in London. Now, having said that,
I would say if you can meet in person,
like if you they happen to be in your
city, go meet in person if you're a if
you're good at that, but it's not needed
at all. And I think one thing I would
add to that actually is it's not only
that you do not need to live in London,
you do not you do not need to live in SF
to raise a um a round. Also, you do not
need to be a Delaware corp. You do not
need to be necessarily a UK um
corporation for that. That has also
completely changed. So, US funds do not
make you switch or flip anymore. Only YC
does and that's like the only
requirement. So, on that, I think when
you even think take a step before and
think about where do I incorporate my
company, think about practicalities of
where is it more most efficient because
of where you live, because of the costs,
right? Delaware
three times as expensive as having a UK
company because auditors and
accountants and lawyers are three times
more expensive. So, think about it from
a practical perspective, what's the best
for your business and optimize
for it as a business decision because
from a fundraising perspective, it
doesn't matter. Like there I mean,
Spain, I'm from Spain, so I can say
this, Spain is
notoriously annoying to close a round
in. Uh, Germany as well, but still you
see US funds
going through the whole hazard. It goes
back to if the intrinsic value of what
you're creating is exciting, people will
go anywhere to fund you. So, it's never
the kind of deal breaker or deal maker.
So, I just optimize for for it as a
business commercial decision.
And I suppose my next question is, you
know, in the past there there was a kind
of a a journey that some founders went
on where they left Europe. Uh, they they
moved to San Francisco. Uh, they raised
funding uh from people like Jason
um and were very successful. Do you
think
Do you see that happening again
post-COVID? Or how how do you see the
the new world? Are US funds investing
from SF at seed into European companies?
And how is that working out for
founders? The question is to to Ruben, I
suppose.
Yeah. Um, I mean, you know, as Carmen
just just said,
US VCs, they they flocked already to to
Europe and um
that can be via franchises for a long
long time, like Excel for example.
They can also be via uh you know, just
just newer uh um subsidiaries.
Um, Sequoia for example.
And
um
What is important to understand is that
that typically the the US VCs here in
Europe, they they operate somewhat on
their own, right? So,
if you raise from them, you raise from
them. And if you want to raise from from
the parent or the big sister, yeah, in
uh um the States,
um then it's a different ballgame. So,
there are situations where and this is
happening often, where you would then
have to convince and your partner of the
European franchise has to convince her
partner in the States and the IC um
investment committee
uh to to basically back you further and
this process actually can take like two
or three months.
I mean, we talk existing relationships
and um
so, be be prepared and you know, in this
regard, um I think it's extremely
important for for European founders,
um especially the ones more on the
technical side of things,
to learn
um
how things work in the States because uh
I think all the Americans here, they
they can subscribe to that, you know, in
terms of storytelling, uh the Americans
are just one or two steps ahead of us
Europeans, you know, and and I'm I'm I'm
German, so the Germans are not that good
in storytelling. And I know some other
friends, you know, we talked about that
before as well today. So, um be prepared
and therefore, um you know, could be a
very very wise thing at one point, maybe
if you are like post-seed, Series A is
coming up, you maybe really want to take
a trip to the States, meet up some
friends, uh you know, you meet along the
way if not just go there solo. You know
people by then who can introduce you.
Breathe the air, learn how things work,
just hang. You know, it doesn't have to
be a year. Go for a week, two, three,
whatever you fancy.
Um and and ideally you can already find
maybe even more more customers testing
the waters over there.
Get some first testimonials. So, you can
do many many many things uh not not not
only learning when you when you go go
over to the States and
maybe maybe one thing though on the
closing.
Um typically
when you close a round, um typically a
VC would like to see you at one point
and you should also want to see the VC
at one point. Because, you know, you're
entering sort of like a like a marriage,
right? And uh yes, you can do it
virtually. There are all kinds of nice
dating sites out there. But uh uh
ultimately, you know, we are in a real
world and you kind of, you know, um have
to see if you get along. So, um
and do reference calls
on your VCs a lot. Yeah, and and uh
also allow them to do one or two on you.
Great. So, yeah, we're going to move
keep moving. So, the next topic we're
going to kind of cover is how to
structure my cap table.
Um so, Zoe is is is quite passionate
about this. So, maybe Zoe, I'm going to
ask you, what should I who should I have
on my cap table? Should I, you know,
what's what's the dream team that I
should be looking for and, you know, how
should I approach that that question?
I'm joking. Um
I when he says passionate, I promise
that I have other hobbies other than
thinking about structuring a cap table.
Um but in all seriousness, so if I was a
European founder today raising a seed
round, I would absolutely want a
European seed fund whose fund totally is
used to investing in businesses at my
stage, is used to all of the problems,
the ups and downs that comes with it,
has a very good conversion rate of
raising the series A and helping them
raise a series A, um has invested in
businesses in my sector, um and has a
very good relationship with some really
dynamic angels. I would want to be
meaningful to that fund and to those
investors. I would want to represent at
least 1 or maybe 2% of that fund as a
primary investment out of the gate. And
the reason I kind of say that to you
folks is that yes, it's fantastic that
there are crossover funds, massive
funds, global funds who are moving into
Europe because they're so excited by
what you're all building and they should
be. But you do not want to be a sub
decimal point in that fund, I don't
think, at the outset. Um and that is
because you are just an option. And when
you become an option to a fund, um and
times get which they do and they
can, uh you want them to want to roll up
their sleeves for you. You don't want
them to be like, "Where's this financial
data?" which you're not used to
preparing yet because it's not the right
stage for you. Um and equally, you want
your next round to be successful and you
don't want to have to think about the
answer to the question, "Why is X fund
not leading this round?" Um and you
don't want to then be not able to cause
like a competitive tension in the round.
So,
I would heed caution at bringing a
non-typical seed investor into your cap
table at the beginning. That being said,
I have absolutely co-invested with kind
of crossover funds, multi-stage funds,
um who have come in as a kind of
supporting um investor role. And that
has worked fine. I would just add a
cautionary hint because I think that
it's your business, you're building
something that's very meaningful to you.
It should mirror with the people who you
surround yourselves with. And I think
that when you matter so much to those
people at the beginning, they will um do
a real solid by you.
And I I suppose on to the next question,
you know, how do you reference or how do
you advise founders to reference their
VCs?
Carmen. Yeah, I think that's a very
important one cuz as we were saying
earlier, it's not even like a marriage,
you're having kids with these people
because to get somebody out of your cap
table is more difficult than to divorce
somebody. Um and I'm saying I got
married on Saturday, so I have thought a
lot about it. Um but basically
but basically um
it is super super important and
ultimately it all comes down to personal
fit and wanting to work with these
people, right? And mattering to these
people and knowing that you can call Zoe
or you can call me at like 1:00 a.m. for
good or for bad news. Those are the ones
that are you want know they'll get like
their sleeves up when like things go
wrong because they will go on that
they'll jump with you when like there's
something to celebrate. So, how do you
know if these are the right kind of how
do you reference them? I always share
with founders um
some criteria or framework. So, we
mentioned like skin in the game. How do
you measure skin in the game though?
Like I mean, look at one good way to do
it is look at your ticket size as a
percentage of the fund size,
right? And the fund size is public
information generally. So, you can check
whether you're a 0.01% of the fund or
you're 10%. It's probably extremes, but
um that is one. Also, look at relative
ticket size. So, ask them because if
they always invest like 100k and they're
investing 100k in you, it's perfect. But
if they generally invest 10 million and
they're investing like 100k in you,
that is tricky, right? And and it's
tricky because when things
go wrong or the incentives for me to
spend time with a company where I have
10% versus where I have 1% are are
different, right? And and it's not that
they're better or worse humans, it's
just business and economics of of the
fund, right? So, I think that that in
like very kind of
quantifiable ways of how do you quantify
skin in the game. Now,
personal fit, that's why as we were
suggesting earlier, maybe go meet them,
try to meet them, have beers either over
Zoom, things like that. And last but not
least, make sure that you reference them
and that you reference them
independently and with companies where
things went wrong.
Cuz where with companies where things
went right, it's always easier to like,
you know, have a rosy picture. So, in my
advice is if you know people who know
founders of this fund, ask for
references. And if you don't, find them
on LinkedIn and reach out.
I think that's another way to do it. If
you don't even know how to like, you
know, check what went right, what went
wrong, there is a
a website called Crunchbase.
You can download
the companies that a fund has invested
in up to a limit if you don't pay, but
the premium version works. And you can
check and be like, "Okay, so they
invested at seed here and they didn't
raise an A. This looks like it went
wrong." Like reach out on LinkedIn
and try to find out how helpful that
fund was or how helpful that person was.
Interesting. And
if you're if you're if you're a seed
fund now, I think it's important as well
to look at
do does the fund have capital? Where
where it is? So, so maybe Zoe, you can
kind of talk about that a little bit
because
certain funds might be the end of their
road, you know, at the you know, they
have less capital available. And also, I
I think maybe yeah, if you can talk
about that, that would be great.
Yeah, um and again, this is us trying to
I guess teach you to ask the right
questions that will empower you to
really understand how your investor is
potentially looking at you. So,
funds that are typically closed funds
might be around and deploying and
investing capital for maybe like
times have changed, but let's say three
to four years. Um so, they'll be making
investments over that period. They will
then spend the rest of the time perhaps
deploying something called reserves, so
money that they held back which they
want to carry on investing in some of
their companies, not all of them. And
then they will have a period where their
own investors will be expecting them to
return that capital back to them. And
that can often be, you know, from year
kind of like eight onwards, but it can
be earlier. And so, the reason it's
really important for you to know whether
you are kind of year one new company out
of the gates for this fund or a year
eight company is so that you can
understand what types of pressures your
own investors may be under from their
investors because this is all a lovely
top-down chain ultimately. And the the
point I'm making here is it's really
good to ask the question, "So, what how
you know, what year how big a fund have
you raised?" so you can understand the
ticket size relativity point. "What year
are you into deploying that fund? How
much of that fund do you typically hold
back for reserves?" just as well so from
the outset you know whether you can
expect more capital from them or not.
And then perhaps it's a good idea to ask
a couple of other questions. One about
competition or potentially adjacent
companies that could be perceived as
competitors. If you should you should be
able to do this, but the reality is
you'll be looking at a lot of funds to
talk to and to do this amount of
homework can get
quite a lot for you guys. So, it'd be
good to understand their view on
competition and investing in direct or
indirect competitors so you know whether
again you are an option or their choice.
And I think the other point to ask is
kind of
how many exits or like winners that
they've already had from the fund that
they're in. And I say this because
again, this goes back to the pressure
point. If you know that your investor is
in year seven, eight of their fund and
they're talking to their own investors
every six months, you can bet your
bottom dollar that those investors are
saying to them, "Where's the next return
coming from?" And you don't want to be
that founder who is forced to find a
buyer for their shares in the next few
years, which distracts you, which takes
your mind off building the business,
just because you didn't at the outset
kind of come equipped with some of these
questions. And I know that's probably a
lot to take in, but I think it's just
really important to try and understand
as much as you can all the different
incentives at play with the people who
are ultimately going to be taking a
chunk of your business, just so that you
can start understanding how they could
onward relay that pressure to you whilst
you're building an absolute rocket ship.
Interesting. And Reuben, I just want to
ask you a question about
we're all institutional investors,
but there are you know, angels that are
slightly different. Why would you take
institutional capital versus
versus angels versus friends versus you
know, maybe maybe have a talk about the
advantages of what what you're offering.
I mean, will you if my company is going
okay, I'm not going to raise an A, but I
need more capital, will you come and
give me money?
Um yeah, I think it's a very good
question. And you know, also alluding to
uh Carmen to what to what you said. Um
basically when when things go go sour,
I mean
a VC could like squeeze you. I mean,
that's really like the extreme of of the
VC you don't want to have. Yeah? To like
squeeze you for whatever funds she can
get out of it. Um I mean, it being your
company. And
two is like
you know, just like
get himself like a put option to like
give back the shares for
a euro. Yeah, so you can deal with your
own liquidation of the company.
Which which I deem as like the neutral
option. Yeah, neither supportive nor nor
harming you. You can do whatever you
want. Yeah?
Um but then comes like really like the
supportive option and and that's
something like like we do at Cavalry for
example.
Um we we we always try because we are
entrepreneurs ourselves. So
you know, having having built quite a
number of companies over the last 10
years.
And um
to to to move things around because
often you can move things around. I
mean, there are levers you can you know,
you know, shrink until you grow again if
you're in such a you know, situation or
we keep up the equity story. So often
you don't want to get a down round
because it kind of like is a bad
signaling in the market. So what we like
to do is is keep it keep the momentum
basically
you know, keep your evaluation. Put in
more money, make a plan, support full
time with like operations such as you
know, we have we have
HR. We can support with HR. Um you know,
finance legal's also in house cost you
nothing. Communications PR even crisis
PR we can support if necessary to make
something ugly look beautiful again.
And yeah, why why do we do it? You know,
it's not you know, it's also because of
we believe in the company first and
foremost. But it's it's actually it's
really more about
supporting the founders and
being thankful that they chose us as a
partner in the first step. You know,
that we were allowed to invest.
And then as you said that once we parted
ways maybe at one point even if the
company may fail
that they speak
good about us that they would recommend
us. And
um we we get actually tons of tons of
recommendations from founders where
things didn't work out ultimately with
the business.
Um and and that's how we look at it. So
it's a long-term game. So we don't want
to earn on that single transaction that
we would you know, but
I think that also funds are different.
So if you do a reference check, you
understand who is really in for the long
run and who is like
opportunistic. Yeah? And one question we
talked a little bit about it earlier as
we was competitive companies. I mean
I have a great seed company. My seed
investor invests in a competitor. How do
you reference that? How do you look at
that? What what are good questions to
ask VCs about how they might approach
that potentially?
If they say that they have got a
competitor
Yeah, or how they are or maybe asking
them we talked about asking them what
they viewed as competitive companies and
how they you know, how do you think
about that? Yeah, I mean again for me,
I'm hoping that either you've gone to a
really specialized fund or you've gone
to almost like a spray and pray hundreds
of people fund just so you understand
those are probably the two most common
where I'd find quite competitive
companies to be the most likely. So I
would be asking them just
straight up, do you have anyone who you
think either now or in the next two or
three years could start overlapping? And
for me, the overlapping point is kind of
where it's probably going to be where
you're competing for budget. So are we
selling to like the same type of buyer,
the same persona? And are we essentially
therefore whichever our go-to-market
motion is, but wanting the attention of
the same person. So when I come to you
to talk about
customer BD, are you also going to be
talking to this business about this? And
then I would sort of be saying um
do you often merge companies? So there
is
a worry
that if you are the more successful one
and there is a less successful one in a
sort of a very adjacent space that one
of your investors may put pressure on
you to acquire the other one. So which
you might not want to do. So I'd ask
about their attitude to
merging companies because it's a way of
keeping them alive when some should
perhaps die. Um and then finally I would
you know, I would just be as direct as
you can be because you are building
hopefully an open and transparent
relationship with this investor. So I
would just say to them you know, if
if there is going to be a choice in your
reserves
will it just be on performance? Like is
there going to be one winner out of
this? And then it's on you as to whether
you are happy with kind of the answer to
those to those questions. But I think no
investor gets worried about being asked
those questions. They should be happy to
give you their candid views on how they
on how they see that play out. Awesome.
So yeah, we'll keep moving. So
the the next topic I suppose is you
know, how to create momentum when you're
fundraising.
I suppose you know, we hear a lot about
that in the market.
Um it's it's it's it's a bit of an art.
But I was going to ask Carmen first of
all because Carmen has an interesting
approach to this. So Carmen, how do I
hack how do I how do I hack the
fundraising to create momentum? Sure, I
love this question. So I basically am
brief intro so you get a bit of context,
but I founded Cocoa. We were VCs for
many years, then now invest like angels.
So we try to exactly become the in-house
VC for founders and help them amongst
other things like hack their first
round of funding. I think that when you
I was saying earlier like whenever you
decide to raise, but when you're raising
you're raising, right? So like how do
you think about it? Think about it as a
B2B sales funnel. It is literally that.
You
qualify leads, i.e. funds, and you focus
on getting them down the funnel or out
of the funnel up until you get a A or
many term sheets. And then there's
another phase in which you choose, but
that's how you need to do it. Now there
are many different ways to create that
momentum. And ideally and best case
scenario, you have an ally an insider be
the founder that like has raised and
knows has the network. Or an angel that
supports you and has the network. Or a
VC that is like smaller and has the
network so that you can
they can help you create that momentum
and that
word that we don't like but is always
around which is the FOMO, right? The
fear of missing of missing out. Now
there's so many other factors that come
into that that I wouldn't stress too
much about that FOMO. I think that
there's much more about the intrinsic
value that you create about choosing the
right market moment. Um and then just
running the process and being execution
machines. Like it is very important to
realize that when you're raising, that
is what you're doing. And I understand
that as a founder, it feels like
the opportunity cost of the time away
from your business is very high and it
should be it should feel high so that
you minimize it. But at the same time
you raise money to build the business.
So what you're doing when you raise is
also building the business, right? And
what cannot happen, I had this situation
where I was helping a founder for many
months as he was thinking whether to
raise or not. And then he was like, I'm
going to raise now. I was like, okay,
great. I'm going to make an intro.
I made an intro to like a top VC and the
investor walks out of the meeting and
goes like, oh I love it. Love the guy,
but he's not raising.
And I
went to the founder and was like, he
thinks you're not raising.
He's like, oh yeah, I wasn't super
clear. I was like, do you want to raise?
And he's like, yes. I was like, then
you're raising. You cannot let anybody
get out of a call without knowing what
the next steps are so that you keep
moving them down the funnel. Now
depending on how this works, you can do
it more subtly less less subtle. Like
there are many arts here. This is like
dating by the way. It's exactly like
dating. So if you're good at dating,
you'll be good at at fundraising. But
but the point is however you communicate
but you need be ruthlessly focused in
raising. That's like the best kind of
way to to create momentum and to run
your round, I think. And how much time
should I like how much time should I be
thinking? I want to raise my seed round.
How much time do I need to give? And
then initially, how do I how do I figure
out who's an insider? How do I get in
touch with an insider?
Yeah, that's that's tricky. I agree.
So on the timing, it's it's very it's
very good question and it's important
for your own expectations management.
So, I think
it can go anywhere from So, from first
meeting to term sheet and jump in with
me for a seed round, but I would say it
can go anywhere from like
less than even in the craziest times,
like less than two to three weeks is
very rare and to the point again, you
need to get to know these people. So, I
advise you take the time to like connect
and reference them and benchmark them up
to like two months. Like or so we've
we've seen. Now, what what is
interesting about this question though
is
you need to realize, and this is very
important for expectations management,
that the round doesn't end when you sign
a term sheet.
That even except if you do a safe and
even if you do a safe or a shorter like
convertible, then there are the legals.
So, there is a a second step that is
from term sheet to money in the bank
that will take less time of you, but
that you should still be on like crazy
execution mode because up until money is
in the bank, this thing is not closed.
And that part tends to be if you do like
long forms, which we call like actual
legal documents, like a price equity
round, that takes from four to six
weeks.
And it is important for you guys to know
because generally founders struggle a
lot with that because they think term
sheet done, I'm done, and then you have
all these like long tail of like lots of
things. So, I think keep that in in mind
as well.
Um and then how do you meet insiders?
Yeah, I think that's maybe Reuben or or
Zoe. I mean, how do I I'm sitting in I'm
sitting in my my home office.
Uh I'm in wherever I you know, in in
Waterford where I'm from. How do I you
know, I'm not from I I have a I'm a you
know, I'm a great coder. I've got a
great product. I've got some traction.
How do I go about get meeting insiders
because it seems to me venture sometimes
is a game of insiders versus a game of
outsiders. And you know, maybe the
outsiders are the ones you know,
that should be getting more traction.
Like how how do you I'm sitting in my
room. How do I how do I become an
insider? Yeah. Um so, I guess
many things to say about this. So, you
may have no insiders and that is also
fine. Um and I say it's fine. The The
truth is it could well be harder, but if
you
it's sales. You are learning the art of
a cold email, a LinkedIn approach which
is compelling and interesting and sure
and to the point and shows you have
researched and have a reason to be
communicating with this person. So,
there is there is that approach. You can
be your own best champion. But the other
thing to remember is from ideation to
before you are fully officially
fundraising, you should be whether it's
in your home market or other markets
doing exactly what you're doing today,
networking, meeting people, whether
that's other founders, whether that's um
early angel investors, accelerators. You
should be testing your idea out on
various groups of stakeholders as much
as you can because you'll be convincing
various people including your early
employees that this is a great idea. And
there will be one person, there has to
be for you to think that this is a great
idea, who'll be like, this is a great
idea and it's such a great idea that I'm
either going to give you my time, which
is super valuable, or my actual money,
which is literally valuable. Um and one
of those people will again, it's a kind
of compounding effect, but they can be
your biggest champion the whole way
through. And it's why um you must never
kill your earliest investors and you
must remember this later on because they
will have been the people who've taken
the earliest leaps of faith. So, I would
say it's a great advantage to have, but
don't think that you have nothing if you
just have cold approaches and that you
will inevitably be building a network
the whole time from start to
Very quick.
Yeah, maybe you know, in this in this
context you can find on on Crunchbase
that uh Carmen mentioned, you can find
what kind of angels uh have done which
deals. So, if you don't know them by
your network, so find a way to get to
those angels because when you have a
great angel, a person who like funded or
founded, ideally both, yeah, um before
successful companies um
ideally unicorns, but can also be a
soonicorns.
Um try to get this person on board and
and typically, you know, those sort of
angels, they they invest in teams.
And often times is way better to do a
concentrated approach to get one, two of
those superstars on board as opposed to
doing spray and pray, don't invest
enough time. You know, um never even
send out just like generic uh
you know, messages on any medium to like
any
investor you want to work with. And um
because because ultimately, you know, as
a role of an angel and also as an early
stage investor, your incentives are
aligned between you know, you as a
founder and them. So, once they're on
board, they support you if they're good
investors with with what you need. Like
and real if I may add something very
quickly. So, the reality is like when we
talk
when Zoe was saying you don't need an
insider, you don't. It will be harder,
but the reality, and this is not because
we're all like, you know, snobs that
only like to hang out with each other,
is because we get hundreds of companies
as inbound and
we read through all of them because we
have full respect for the time and the
energy that everybody's putting behind
that. But the reality is that when you
look for signals, if somebody really
trusts, if Zoe sends me a company, I'm
for sure going to meet that company
because to me it's already a great sign
that she wants to send that to me,
right? Now, if I read a cold email, I'm
going to read the deck, but I don't have
that extra signal. So, I might still
fall in love with the company and ping
you back and have a call, but it is one
signal less. Now, having said that also,
nobody is born an insider. Like you
become an insider. Like we've all backed
companies. There is a company I actually
angel invested with one of Zoe's partner
that got through me because Zoe's
partner knew a guy from Burning Man
who knew the company. And so, this
company, these founders who were 22, by
the way, spoke to everybody on Earth.
And this guy who went to Burning Man
with Finn told them, "Oh, I know one
deals from BC." And so, they introduced
him to Finn and then Finn introduced
them to me. And then that's it. You know
what I mean? Like it's meet everybody,
talk to everybody, hustle your way
through and there will be one person
that will see the value that you're
creating and will champion you. So, it's
not nobody's born an insider. So, if
you're in your office in Dublin by
yourself, don't think that you don't
stand a chance because
I mean, even Johnny from Hoppin, by the
way, like he had like had been rejected
by everybody, got through me via an
angel that he harassed for like months.
So, like that that's the point, right?
Like we can all become insiders if you
hustle your way through it. Agreed. So,
we're we're going to keep moving. Uh so,
on to the kind of last topic,
um I suppose it's it's
what's the seed market like now in
Europe? Is it a good time to raise,
which which we kind of covered earlier,
but you know, are you guys investing?
Are you are you in the market? And what
what you know, what's changed? Has But
you know, maybe talk me through Zoe.
What what what's happening?
We're absolutely investing. We aren't
the only ones. It's a great time as
everyone will tell you and I can recount
all of the things about every downturn
in the market. It is a great time to
build. However, warnings are talent is
still expensive and some founders'
mentality and psychology hasn't yet
shifted into the fact that we are
slightly entering a new price
disciplined um have you got 24 months
runway, will a growth investor love what
you're building world, which just means
actually that for you to be successful
now, you have to be amazing. But isn't
that great? Like and Europe is a
wonderful place to be. Um there's a lot
of capital and there's a lot of
conviction. So, for me,
positive, but with the couple of warning
signs.
Yeah, and Carmen, maybe
you know, valuations have changed and
expectations around valuations might
have changed.
Look, I think the best companies are
actually created in like situations like
this because it cleans everything else
that like should not have got funded,
that like should have that it just gets
clean and that makes more talent
available. And also, like it sort of
spikes creativity. So, we're incredibly
excited about the companies that we will
see being built in the next two two
years. Right? At the end of the day, you
need to think about like the intrinsic
value of what you're creating, of the
technology that you're creating is
moving upwards. What you need to make
sure is that from now till the market
sort of recovers again at the later
stages, you do not need money.
So, that you're not caught in the middle
of the dump. That's a little bit how we
think it. Now, that has also to do with
the valuations at which you reach seed
because
what was happening a year ago was that
we were seeing like seed rounds of five
at 30, which by the way, are the were
series A's when I joined BC. Like when I
joined BC seven years ago, that was a
series A. But that became a pre-seed a
year ago. So, like five at 30, great.
That means your A is going to needs to
be at like 150 120 150 million. Now,
they were they were happening. Now,
today to raise a a round a series A at
125, people are going to ask you for a
lot of data, for a lot of traction, for
a lot like the bar is very high. So,
it's probably you're not serving
yourself well in raising an a seed at 30
because you're putting a lot a lot of
pressure on yourself and the performance
that you need in order to raise the next
round. So, how I would think about it
now, I don't think rounds are going to
get much much much smaller because
investors still want companies to have
enough funding to go from one side of
the market to the other, but think about
how much money does my business need for
the next 24 months
plus a buffer as we were saying and then
think about dilutions of percentages or
the price that you pay that make more or
less sense so that if you then take the
valuation that
you end up, you multiply it by three or
which is your next one and you feel like
I can build a business that can be
valued at this in 24 months, right? And
never actually do not think when you
look at the terms, do not think about
the valuation top line. Is it like 20?
Is it 30? Is it 10? What matters is the
price you're paying and that is the
dilution.
So, actually think about the size of the
round which is what should be the driver
because it's the money the business
needs and how much you're paying for
that, the dilution. The valuation itself
is just a product of those two, but it's
highly confusing because you can be
raising at 50, by the way, 50 million
and it can sound very high, but you
might get being diluted 50%.
Right? And and that is like makes no
sense. You might raise at 10 million and
being diluted 10%.
So, like think about like the actual
size of the round and
dilution or price that you're paying
rather than a top line valuation cuz
it's very confusing.
And we have two two two final things.
Yeah, we're we're wrapping up shortly.
We're running running out of time and
you have you have the final words David.
So, you know, one is like
I mean, we are we are we are at a SaaS
conference and you know, the underlying
trend of continued digitalization of the
established companies, it won't go away.
I mean, we are in full force and there
is amazing companies most of them
actually they have 60, 70, 80% equity
quota. They can endure a crisis. They
have the right management teams, CDOs,
etc. They know how to purchase SaaS
products. So, they will continue. So, so
just follow the trend. Maybe look who
are the good clients of yours. There are
some who may go out of business who
don't have that much of a good equity
quota,
who don't have a good management team,
who don't know. So, so really be careful
whom you actually yourself spend your
valuable time on
onboarding as a client.
[Music]